
Buffers in Vulkan are used to store any data that GPU can access. Unlike objects that we have created so far buffers do not allocate their memory automatically so we need to do that instead. 

Information about the buffer is specified by the `VkBufferCreateInfo` structure and we will fill it like this

```c++
VkBufferCreateInfo bufferInfo{};  
bufferInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_BUFFER_CREATE_INFO;  
bufferInfo.size = sizeof(vertices[0]) *vertices.size();  
// might be more using | operator  
bufferInfo.usage = VK_BUFFER_USAGE_VERTEX_BUFFER_BIT;  
// specifies if it can be shared between queue families  
// we will use it only for the graphics family  
bufferInfo.sharingMode = VK_SHARING_MODE_EXCLUSIVE;  
//sparse buffer memmory  
bufferInfo.flags = 0;
```

Now we can create the buffer and store its handle inside the class member called `m_vertexBuffer`

```c++
if(vkCreateBuffer(m_device, &bufferInfo, nullptr, &m_vertexBuffer) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to create Vertex Buffer");  
}
```

Similarly to every creation we must not forget to delete the buffer in the clean up method 

```c++
vkDestroyBuffer(m_device, m_vertexBuffer, nullptr);
```

## Memory requirements

As of now the buffer has been created but does not have any memory assigned to it. To specify memory requirements we have to query it from the buffer using `vkGetBufferMemoryRequirements`. This will retrieve what requirements must the memory have based no `VkBufferCreateInfo` structure filled in earlier.  

```c++
VkMemoryRequirements memRequirements;  
vkGetBufferMemoryRequirements(m_device, m_vertexBuffer, &memRequirements);
```

The `VkMemoryRequirements` structs has following fields:
- `size` - size of the buffer might be different than one specified in the `VkBufferCreateInfo.size`
- `aligment` - where buffer starts in the allocated memory, this depends on the `VkBufferCreateInfo.usage` and `VkBufferCreateInfo.flags`
- `memoryByteTypes` - data types that are suited for the buffer

We can allocate different type of memories based on what operations we want to preform. To find memory we will crate helper function that will do this for us.

We will start by retrieving the memory from the graphics card. The `VkPhysicalDeviceMemroyPropeties` contains `heap` and `type` (both arrays of `VkMemoryType[]` or `VkMemoryHeap`)

Memory heap is specifying stuff like V-RAM and actual RAM that should be allocated if V-RAM is full and stuff like this. Type of heap can affect performance. 

>NOTE: this method will return the index that can be used to access queried memory from the physical device. More closely we can use `VkPhysicalDeviceMemoryProperties.memoryType[retrievedIndex]` to get the suitable memory type

```c++
static inline uint32_t FindMemoryType(uint32_t typeFilter, VkMemoryPropertyFlags properties, VkPhysicalDevice physicalDevice) {  
    VkPhysicalDeviceMemoryProperties memProperties;  
	vkGetPhysicalDeviceMemoryProperties(physicalDevice, &memProperties);

	for(uint32_t i = 0; i<memProperties.memoryTypeCount; i++) {  
	    if(typeFilter & (1 << i)) {  
	        return i;  
	    }  
	}
}
```

We are not only interested only in the right type of the memory but also in its capabilities. These include things like: Can we write to that memory ?,  Can we map it so that CPU can access this memory ? (specified by `VK_MEMORY_PROPERTY_HOST_VISIBLE_BIT,`),

We can check for this in the function.

```c++
if(typeFilter & (1 << i) &&  
    (memProperties.memoryTypes[i].propertyFlags & properties) == properties) {  
    return i;  
}
```

## Memory allocation 

Now we have the actual memory so we can fill in the `VkMemmoryAllocate` struct. 

```c++
VkMemoryAllocateInfo allocInfo{};  
allocInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_MEMORY_ALLOCATE_INFO;  
allocInfo.allocationSize = memRequirements.size;  
allocInfo.memoryTypeIndex = FindMemoryType(memRequirements.memoryTypeBits, VK_MEMORY_PROPERTY_HOST_VISIBLE_BIT | VK_MEMORY_PROPERTY_HOST_COHERENT_BIT, m_physicalDevice);
```

As mentioned we want to map the memory and it to be coherent. We specify this with the `VK_MEMORY_PROPERTY_HOST_VISIBLE_BIT | VK_MEMORY_PROPERTY_HOST_COHERENT_BIT`. This is being checked together with retrieved `memoryTypeBits` (we did not specify this, it is returned from physical device ) in the function and it will retrieve the index of the right memory type. 

We can now allocate the memory using `vkAllocateMemory` and store it as the class member so that we can late associate it with the created buffer. 

```c++
if(vkAllocateMemory(m_device, &allocInfo, nullptr, &m_vertexBufferMemory) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to allocate memory");  
}  
  
vkBindBufferMemory(m_device, m_vertexBuffer, m_vertexBufferMemory, 0);
```

The last parameter is specifying the offset of the memory, since we are specifying the memory for only one vertex buffer the offset will be zero. If we were to pass vertex buffer to already existing allocated memory the number passed **has to be divisible by** `VkMemoryRequirement.aligment`. 

We must not forget to deallocate the memory **after** the buffer is destroyed

```c++
vkDestroyBuffer(m_device, m_vertexBuffer, nullptr);  
vkFreeMemory(m_device, m_vertexBufferMemory, nullptr);
```