After `vkInstance` has been created we have to select the GPU which will execute the Vulkan operations.
We can select more than one GPU (Physical device) and work on them simultaneously

We will store the physical device to the 
```c++
private:
	VkPhysicalDevice m_physicalDevice;
```

this is automatically destroyed when `vkInstance` is destroyed so we don't have to do any clean up.

We can query the list of all available physical devices using the following

```c++
uint32_t deviceCount = 0;  
vkEnumeratePhysicalDevices(m_instance, &deviceCount, nullptr);

std::vector<VkPhysicalDevice> devices(deviceCount);  
vkEnumeratePhysicalDevices(m_instance, &deviceCount, devices.data());
```

Now we can get some information about certain physical device. We can query **Physical device properties** to get stuff like name, Vulkan version etc. Or we can query **Physical device features** to get additional info e.g. 64-bit textures, texture compression, geometry shader support and more.

## Queue families

As mentioned every command copying, drawing, filling texture data needs to be submitted to the queue. Queue originates from the **queue family** which supports only some commands. So there is queue family for drawing, coping, creating etc

To retrieve all available queue families from the physical device we will use the following code.

```c++
uint32_t queueFamilyCount = 0;  
vkGetPhysicalDeviceQueueFamilyProperties(device, &queueFamilyCount, nullptr);

std::vector<VkQueueFamilyProperties> queueFamilyProperties(queueFamilyCount);
vkGetPhysicalDeviceQueueFamilyProperties(device, &queueFamilyCount, queueFamilyProperties.data());
```

`VkQueueFamilyProperties` contains type of operations that are supported, number of queues that can be created and more.

We want to find at least one queue family that supports `VK_QUEUE_GRAPHICS_BIT` we can check for it like this

```c++
for (auto& queueFamily: queueFamilyProperties) {  
    if(queueFamily.queueFlags & VK_QUEUE_GRAPHICS_BIT) {  
        indices.graphicsFamily = i;  
    }  
    if(indices.isComplete()) break;  
  
    i++;  
}
```

Indices is an struct that stores the index of the desired queue family in the provided physical device.

We are specifying that we want the queue family which contains the `VK_QUEUE_GRAPHICS_BIT` operations 

Next [[2.4 Logical device and queues]]