## Introduction

During the resize events swap chain needs to be recreated to accommodate for various window size. This will affect extend of frame buffers, images retrieved from the swap chain, all of those objects need to be recreated. 

## Implementation
We will create method that will recreate the swap chain with all of the necessary information. This method will call of the already created methods that retrieve all of the information needed to create the swap chain and store the necessary ones and additionaly recreate the frame buffers with newly obtained information. See [[2.6 Swap chain]]

```c++
void HelloTriangle::RecreateSwapChain() {  
	//we dont want to recreate resrouces that still might be in use thus we will 
	//wait until those resources are no longer needed
    vkDeviceWaitIdle(m_device);  
  
    CreateSwapChain();  
    CreateImageViews();  
    CreateFrameBuffers();  
}
```

We also want to clear up old swap chain information. We will put this functionality in the separate method. 

```c++
void HelloTriangle::CleanupSwapChain() {  
  
}  
  
void HelloTriangle::RecreateSwapChain() {  
    vkDeviceWaitIdle(m_device);  
  
    CleanupSwapChain();  
    CreateSwapChain();  
    CreateImageViews();  
    CreateFrameBuffers();  
}
```

> NOTE: Theoretically we should recreate the render pass as the image types might change during the lifetime of the program. For instance when image is moved from HDR (high dynamic range) monitor to LDR monitor

Next we will move all of the stuff that is needed to clear the swap chain from the clean up function to the `CleanupSwapChain`

```c++
for (auto frameBuffer: m_swapChainFrameBuffers) {  
    vkDestroyFramebuffer(m_device, frameBuffer, nullptr);  
}  
  
for (auto imageView: m_swapChainImageViews) {  
    vkDestroyImageView(m_device, imageView, nullptr);  
}  
  
vkDestroySwapchainKHR(m_device, m_swapChain, nullptr);
```
And we will also call this method while clearing up all of the resources.

Disadvantage of this method is that all rendering needs to be paused while new swap chain is being crated.

It is however possible to crate the swap chain while drawing is in progress. By passing old swap chain to the `oldSwapChain` field of the `VkSwapChainCreateInfoKHR`

## When to recreate it ?

Now that we have all of the methods necessary we have to figure out when to recreate the swap chain. This can be done checking the return values of `vkAcquireNextImageKHR` and `vkQueuePresentKHR`. This function can return the following special values. 

- `VK_ERROR_OUT_OF_DATE_KHR` - swap chain is not compatible with the surface, happens most often when resizing the window. 
- `VK_SUBOPTIMAL_KHR` - the swap chain can be still used but the some properties does not match exactly with the surface
We can check for those values and recreate the swap chain accordingly 

```c++
if(result == VK_ERROR_OUT_OF_DATE_KHR) {  
    RecreateSwapChain();  
    return;}else if(result != VK_SUCCESS && result != VK_SUBOPTIMAL_KHR) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to acquire swap chain iamge");  
}
```

```c++
 if(vkQueueSubmit(m_graphicsQueue, 1, &submitInfo, m_inFlightFences[currentFrame]) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to submit drawing command buffer");  
}
```

