In Vulkan drawing is not executed via single function calls like `glDrawArrays` every call is recorded to the **command buffer** and is send to the GPU at once. This have advantages like multi-thread rendering, and optimisations.

Before we can issue commands to the command buffer we have to first create a **command pool** they manage the memory. Subsequently command buffers are allocated from the command pools 

We will first create an class member to store the command pool as it will be required later on in the process

```c++
VkCommandPool m_comandPool;
```

We can now create command pool. First we will populate struct `VkCommandPoolCreateInfo` with following information:

```c++
QueueFamilyIndices queueFamilyIndices = FindQueueFamilies(m_physicalDevice, m_sruface);  
  
VkCommandPoolCreateInfo poolInfo{};  
poolInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_COMMAND_POOL_CREATE_INFO;  
poolInfo.flags = VK_COMMAND_POOL_CREATE_RESET_COMMAND_BUFFER_BIT;  
poolInfo.queueFamilyIndex = queueFamilyIndices.graphicsFamily.value();

if(vkCreateCommandPool(m_device, &poolInfo, nullptr, &m_comandPool) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to create command pool !");  
}
```

We have first retrieved the queue family for graphics operations as we are going to execute drawing operations from our command buffer. 

The `flags` field of the struct can have 2 different flags:
- `VK_COMAND_POOL_CREATE_RESET_COMMAND_BUFFER_BIT` to say that we want to reset the command buffers individually if this flag was not there all command buffers would behave the same 
- `VK_COMMAND_POOL_CREATE_TRANSIENT_BIT` this is noting that the command buffer is going to be recorded with new command very often meaning that commands from it will vary (graphics, compute, memory management, etc.) 

Lastly we must not forget to delete the command pool using `vkDestroyCommandPool` function.

## Command buffer allocation

The command buffer allocation is done based on the command pool. The command buffer is stored within the `VkCommandBuffer` object. We **do not** need to explicitly delete this as it will be deleted by the associated command pool

The creation of the command buffer is as expected.

```c++
VkCommandBufferAllocateInfo allocInfo{};  
allocInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_COMMAND_BUFFER_ALLOCATE_INFO;  
allocInfo.commandPool = m_comandPool;  
allocInfo.level = VK_COMMAND_BUFFER_LEVEL_PRIMARY;  
allocInfo.commandBufferCount = 1;  
  
if(vkAllocateCommandBuffers(m_device,&allocInfo,&m_commandBuffer) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to allocate command buffer");  
}
```
`commandPool` field is specifying the command pool we have previously created.
`level` field specifies if the command buffer is **primary** or **secondary**. 
- If they are primary they can be submitted directly to the queue to be executed but can not be called from other command buffers
- If they are secondary they **can not** be submitted directly to the queue to be executed but can be called from the primary command buffers 
`commandBufferCount` is one as we only allocate only 1 command buffer

## Recording command buffer

We will record commands to the command buffer using the the method that will accept the command buffer object and swap chain image index as an parameter. 

```c++
void HelloTriangle::RecordCommandBuffer(VkCommandBuffer commandBuffer, uint32_t imageIndex) {  
  
}
```

We will start to record stuff into it **always** by executing the `VkBeginCommandBuffer` with populated struct `VkCommandBufferBeginInfo` 

```c++
VkCommandBufferBeginInfo beginInfo{};  
beginInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_COMMAND_BUFFER_BEGIN_INFO;  
beginInfo.flags = 0;  
beginInfo.pInheritanceInfo = nullptr;  
  
if(vkBeginCommandBuffer(commandBuffer, &beginInfo)!=VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to beign reording the command buffer");  
}
```

the flags can have following values depending on what we want to do with the command buffer
- `VK_COMMAND_BUFFER_USAGE_ONE_TIME_SUBMIT_BIT` - we will rerecord the command buffer after being executed once 
- `VK_COMMAND_BUFFER_USAGE_RENDER_PASS_CONTINUE_BIT` - the command buffer specified is the secondary command buffer, that is it has `level` parameter specified differently
- `VK_COMMAND_BUFFER_USAGE_SIMULTANEOUS_USE_BIT` - the command buffer can be resubmitted while it is waiting until it is executed
Non of those flags are applicable to us so we will stick to the `nullptr`

If we the command buffer was already recorded once (by calling `VkBeginCommandBuffer`) in order to record something new there the call to the `VkBeginCommandBuffer` function will simply overwrite it.

The drawing starts by beginning the render pass using `vkCmdBeginRenderPass`. This function expects populated `VkRenderPassBeginInfo` structure that specifies additional render pass information.

```c++
VkRenderPassBeginInfo renderPassInfo{};  
renderPassInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_RENDER_PASS_BEGIN_INFO;  
renderPassInfo.renderPass = m_renderPass;  
renderPassInfo.framebuffer = m_swapChainFrameBuffers[imageIndex];
```

The `renderPass` is the configured render pass from [[3.4 Render pass]] and has the same format as the swap chain image retrieved from the presentation layer

Next we will specify the rendering area i.e where shader operations take effect 

```c++
renderPassInfo.renderArea.offset = {0,0};  
renderPassInfo.renderArea.extent = m_swapChainExtent;
```

Next we will specify the colour that the frame buffer should be cleared to since we have used `VL_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_CLEAR` option fro the render pass. This can be filled with any colour represented as 4 component vector (RGBA)

```c++
VkClearValue clearValue = {{{0.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f,1.0f}}};  
renderPassInfo.clearValueCount = 1;  
renderPassInfo.pClearValues = &clearValue;
```

Now we can finally submit the draw call to the command buffer. 

```c++
vkCmdBeginRenderPass(commandBuffer, &renderPassInfo, VK_SUBPASS_CONTENTS_INLINE);
```
Every command in Vulkan starts with `vkCmd` prefix. It returns void so we can not check the correctness. Additionally every command begins with the command buffer **into which** we want to record the command into.

The last parameter specifies weather the command buffer is secondary or primary. We have to options. 
- `VK_SUBPASS_CONTENTS_INLINE` - the command will be enabled in the primary command buffer and **no secondary buffers** will be executed 
- `VK_SUBPASS_CONTENTS_SECONDARY_COMMAND_BUFFERS:` the render command will be executed from the **secondary** command buffer.
We are sticking with the first one as we are not using the secondary command buffers.

## Basic drawing command 

After we told Vulkan to begin the render pass we can now bind the pipeline using `vkCmdBindPipeline`

```c++
vkCmdBindPipeline(commandBuffer, VK_PIPELINE_BIND_POINT_GRAPHICS, m_graphicsPipeline);
```

In the [[3.3 Fixed function pipeline]] we specified the scissors and pipeline to be dynamic so we have to now specify it. 

```c++
viewport.minDepth = 0.0f;  
viewport.maxDepth = 1.0f;  
vkCmdSetViewport(commandBuffer, 0, 1, &viewport);  
  
VkRect2D scissors{};  
scissors.offset = {0,0};  
scissors.extent = m_swapChainExtent;  
vkCmdSetScissor(commandBuffer, 0, 1, &scissors);
```

Now we can finally put draw command to the command buffer.

```c++
vkCmdDraw(commandBuffer, 3,1,0,0);
```

The `vkCmdDraw` has the following parameters 
`commandBuffer` command buffer which will execute the command
- `vertexCount` count of vertices we are going to render
- `instanceCount` number of instances we are going to render 
- `firstVertex` the index of the first vertex that will specify the lowest index of `gl_VertexIndex` variable in the vertex shader 
- `firstInstance` specifies the the lowest variable of `gl_InstanceIndex`

## Finishing up 

We can now end the render pass that we started at the beginning using `vkBeginRenderPass`

```c++
vkCmdEndRenderPass(commandBuffer);
```

And finally we can finish recording to the command buffer which we started using `vkBeginCommandBuffer` 

```c++
vkCmdEndRenderPass(commandBuffer);  
  
if(vkEndCommandBuffer(commandBuffer) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to record command buffer");  
}
```

Next [[4.3 Rendering and presentation]]