Here everything will come together. We are going to create `drawFrame` function that will be called from the main loop of the application

The rendering of the frame looks briefly like this 
- Wait for previous frame to finish rendering 
- Acquire new image to draw into
- Record the command buffer that will draw the scene to the acquired image 
- submit the recorded command buffer 
- present the swap chain image 

In Vulkan multiple operations execute at once and they return something before they are actually done. It is up to use to determine when should next operation begin.

To do that we have set of primitives. Namely:
**Semaphore** and **Fence** they act like switches. Once a operation is finished either one will go the the *active* state signalising that next operation can begin.  

## Semaphore

It is used to add order in operations either withing the queue or between different queues.

We can submit operations to the queue either by using the command buffer or in the function. There are 2 semaphores in Vulkan. **Binary** and **Timeline**. We will not discuss the timeline semaphore here. 

It has 2 states **signal** and **unsignalled**. When Semaphore is created it will always start as **unsignalled**. 

Semaphores are only forcing GPU work to wait not the CPU (host) site to wait.

## Fences

They work exactly like semaphores with an exception that they stall the CPU (host) execution

Fences mainly are there to synchronise CPU work with the GPU work. We don't want to send 1000 commands while GPU did not finish processing the 1st one. 

Therefore we will wait for the GPU to be finished. 

## Where to use them
In our application we have to places to synchronise: *Swap chain* and *waiting for the previous frame* to finish. 

For the swap chain operations such as rendering etc.. we want to use **Semaphore** and for the waiting for the frame to be rendered we will use the **Fence** so that we do not override the image that is being rendered into. Additional reason to use Fence is that we will record command buffer every frame and we don't want to override the current frame. 

## Implementation
We will need:
- Semaphore: to signal that image has been acquired from the swap chain
- Another semaphore: to signal that rendering is finished and presentation can now happen
- Fence: to determine when the next frame should be acquired. 

We will use `VkSemaphore` and `VkFence` objects to store the state of them

```c++
//no other features
VkSemaphoreCreateInfo semaphoreInfo{};  
semaphoreInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_SEMAPHORE_CREATE_INFO;  

//no other features
VkFenceCreateInfo fenceInfo{};  
fenceInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_FENCE_CREATE_INFO;  
  
if(vkCreateSemaphore(m_device, &semaphoreInfo, nullptr, &m_imageAvailableSemaphore) != VK_SUCCESS ||  
   vkCreateSemaphore(m_device, &semaphoreInfo, nullptr, &m_renderFinishedSemaphore) != VK_SUCCESS ||  
   vkCreateFence(m_device, &fenceInfo, nullptr, &m_inFlightFence) != VK_SUCCESS  
   ) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to create synchronization objects");  
}
```

And we should delete it when no synchronisation is needed  

```c++
vkDestroySemaphore(m_device, m_imageAvailableSemaphore, nullptr);  
vkDestroySemaphore(m_device, m_renderFinishedSemaphore, nullptr);  
vkDestroyFence(m_device, m_inFlightFence, nullptr);  
vkDestroyCommandPool(m_device, m_comandPool, nullptr);
```

## Waiting for the next frame 

Now we will focus on the `drawFrame` method. Before we can do anything here we have to wait for the previous frame until it is finished. We do this by waiting for the *fence* until it is in deactivated state. Using the following function `VkWaitForFences`

```c++
vkWaitForFences(m_device, 1, &m_inFlightFence, VK_TRUE, UINT64_MAX);
```
First parameter is the logical device, second is the fence(s) we are waiting for, fourth is marking if the CPU should continue after all of the fences in the provided array are available, and last one is the timeout which we will disable by passing maximum value of `UINT64`

After waiting we also have to manually set the fence to the **unsignaled** state using `vkResetFences`

```c++
vkResetFences(m_device, 1, &m_inFlightFence);
```
Since we are waiting for the frames to be finished the fence we have set up will be blocking CPU infinetly as during the first frame there is no other frame to wait for thus we will never get over the inactive state of the fence during the rendering of the first frame.

To overcome this issue we will set the fence to be active so that it can be signalled in order to continue onto the next frame. 
To do this we will add `VK_FENCE_CREATE_SIGNALED_BIT` to the `flags` field during the fence creation process.

```c++
VkFenceCreateInfo fenceInfo{};  
fenceInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_FENCE_CREATE_INFO;  
fenceInfo.flags = VK_FENCE_CREATE_SIGNALED_BIT;
```


## Acquiring an image from the swap chain

Next we have to acquire the image from the swap chain. We will retrieve the index of the provided image and use it to index to the array of all swap chain images or frame buffers 

```c++
uint32_t imageINdex;  
vkAcquireNextImageKHR(m_device, m_swapChain, UINT64_MAX, m_imageAvailableSemaphore, VK_NULL_HANDLE, &imageINdex);
```

First we have specified logical device and swap chain from which to retrieve the image from. Next is the time out in nanoseconds which is disabled by passing max of 64 bit unsigned integer. 
Next is the synchronisation objects  which will be turned on when the image is retrieved. It can be either semaphore, fence or both. (Fence is supposed to be where we passed `VK_NULL_HANDLE) 
And last is the index of the image that was retrieved from the swap chain which we will use to index to the frame buffer. 

## Recording the command buffer
Now we can record the command buffer. But first we have to reset the command buffer itself by using `vkResetCommandBuffer`

```c++
vkResetCommandBuffer(m_commandBuffer, 0);
```

the last parameter are the `flags` which we are not interested in right now. 

Now we can actually record the command buffer with the method that we have created earlier.

```c++
RecordCommandBuffer(m_commandBuffer, imageINdex);
```

## Submitting the command buffer

Now that we have created and recorded the command buffer we can submit it to the Queue.

The queue submission and configuration is done through the `VkSubmitInfo` structure

```c++
VkSubmitInfo submitInfo{};  
submitInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_SUBMIT_INFO;  
  
VkSemaphore syncSemaphors[] = {m_imageAvailableSemaphore};  
VkPipelineStageFlags waitStages[] = {VK_PIPELINE_STAGE_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OUTPUT_BIT};  
  
submitInfo.waitSemaphoreCount = 1;  
submitInfo.pWaitSemaphores = syncSemaphors;  
submitInfo.pWaitDstStageMask = waitStages;
```

We have to specify the array of semaphores for which to wait. We want to wait until we have acquired the image from the swap chain. Next we have to specify at which stages of the pipeline we want to wait. We have specified `VK_PIPELINE_STAGE_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OUTPUT_BIT` since we want to wait before we start outputting colours to the pixels of the frame buffer.  Each entry in `waitSages` is equal to the index of the semaphore in the `syncSemaphores` meaning that `m_imageAvailable` has index of 0 so does the `VK_PIPELINE_STAGE_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OUTPUT_BIT` in the `watiStages` variable.

Now we will specify the command buffer information. That is count of the command buffers and the command buffers themselves 

```c++
submitInfo.commandBufferCount = 1;  
submitInfo.pCommandBuffers = &m_commandBuffer;
```

Now we can specify which semaphores to signal once all of the commands in the command buffer have been exectued.

```c++
VkSemaphore signalSemaphores [] = {m_renderFinishedSemaphore};  
submitInfo.signalSemaphoreCount = 1;  
submitInfo.pSignalSemaphores = signalSemaphores;
```

> NOTE: the `waitSemaphore` is specifying on which semaphores to wait and `signalSemaphores` is specifying which semaphores should be signalled once the operation we are submitting is done 

Now we can finally submit the command buffer to the queue using `vkQueueSubmit`

```c++
if(vkQueueSubmit(m_graphicsQueue, 1, &submitInfo, m_inFlightFence) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to submit drawing command buffer");  
}
```
The last parameter that is signalled when the rendering is finished so that command buffer can be resubmitted. 

## Sub pass dependency

As mentioned int the [[3.4 Render pass]] there is different image layout before and after the rendering. Transition of the image is handled by the API automatically. This operations are not explicit sub-passes as we only have one. But they are **implicit** subpasses meaning that we can think of them as separate sub passes.

The transition of the image is done at the beginning of the pipeline. At this point we have not image. 

There are 2 solutions to this problem.  First we could specify to wait at the `VK_PIPELINE_STAGE_TOP_OF_PIPE_BIT` during the `m_imageAvailableSemaphore` like this:

```c++
VkSemaphore syncSemaphors[] = {m_imageAvailableSemaphore};  
VkPipelineStageFlags waitStages[] = {`VK_PIPELINE_STAGE_TOP_OF_PIPE_BIT`};

submitInfo.waitSemaphoreCount = 1;  
submitInfo.pWaitSemaphores = syncSemaphors;  
submitInfo.pWaitDstStageMask = waitStages;
```

Or we could leave it as it is and specify the sub-passes dependencies during the render pass creation. (this is what we will use )

In the `CreateRenderPass` method we have to create the `VkSubpassDependency` struct which specifies the dependency of the sub pass.

```c++
VkSubpassDependency dependency{};  
dependency.srcSubpass = VK_SUBPASS_EXTERNAL;  
dependency.dstSubpass = 0;
```

The  value of `VK_SUBPASS_EXTERNAL` refers to the sub pass before or after rendering. If the `VK_SUBPASS_EXTERNAL` is in the `srcSubpass` the sub pass is the one before the rendering. If the `VK_SUBPASS_EXTERNAL` is in the `dstSubpass` this means that the sub pass is happening **after** the rendered image.

