## Step 1: Instance and physical device
`VkInstance` is used to describe the application and any API extension
`VkPhysicalDevices` used for specify the actual GPU, VRAM and other hardware specs to preform the Vulkan operations on.
## Step 2: Logical device and queue families

### Logical device
specified using `VkDevice` where we can specify physical device features we want to use using `VkPhysicalDeviceFeatures` like multi view port rendering, 64-bit floats.
### Queue families
Every operation that is preformed (memory allocation, draw commands) are done *asynchronously*. We utilise `VkQueue` for this operations. Each *queue* belongs to the queue family and each family is tailored towards separate operations. One queue for rendering, memory allocation etc...

## Step 3: Window surface and swap chain
Window is set up using GLFW to allow for cross-platform support. In order to draw to the window we need to use `VkSurfaceKHR` for window surface and `VkSwapChainKHR` to swap the back buffer. 

The `KHR` post fix is imposing that the call is part of the extension.

Swap chain is there to **not** display images in which we are currently rendering to. If we want to render to image we request it from swap chain and when we are done we will return it back.

## Step 4: Image views and frame buffers
To draw to image **from** the swap chain we have to wrap it using `VkImageView` together with `VkFramebuffer` 

*Image view* is for specifying the part of the image to be used and *Framebuffer* is used to store, colour, depth and stencil attachments

## Step 5: Render pass
They describe the type of images that are used during rendering. *Render pass* describes only the type of images and `VkFrameBuffer` actually binds this images to the right slots. E.g. Colour Image to colour target, depth image to depth target etc.

## Step 6: The graphics pipeline
Created using `VkPipeline` object. Here we can specify:
- view port size
- depth buffer operations
- shaders
Shades are passed to the pipeline **in compiled** Byte Code using `VkShaderModule` object. 

On top of that we have to supply the render targets using the reference to the **Render pass** 

If we want to change the Shader dynamically, alter the vertex array or anything else we have to create a `VkPipeline` for every combination of things we want to use. 
Only view port, clear colour and other basic information can be changed dynamically.

Advantage of doing everything before hand is that it allows us to know the performance and other staff well in advanced meaning better optimisation.

## Step 7: Command pools and command buffers

As mentioned, operations that need to be executed, like drawing have to be associated with the *queue family* and send to the corresponding queue. 

Before we do that we have to records such operations to the `VkCommandBuffer` the *command buffers* are allocated from the `VkCommandPool` which is associated with specific queue family.

To draw a triangle we need to command the command buffer with following information:
- Begin Render pass
- Bind the graphics pipeline
- Draw 3 vertices
- End the render pass

Every image in the frame buffer has to have the command buffer allocated alongside itself. 


## Step 8: Main loop
Now we have everything we need. Commands in command, buffer data in queue and pipeline we can render stuff.

First we acquire the image using `vkAcquireNextImageKHR`. than we select the command buffer and execute it with `vkQueueSubmit`. Finally we return the image back to the swap chain using `vkQueuePresentKHR`.

Operations in queues are asynchronous, to ensure correct order of execution, that is before executing the draw command buffer we first have to wait for the image retrieval. We will use semaphores to wait.

Additionally the `vkQueuePresnetKHR` needs to wait until render pass is finished.

## Summary
There is more to it than this like allocating vertex buffers, creating uniform buffers, uploading texture images. For now we will hard code the vertex information inside the vertex shared. 

This is what needs to be done in summary :
- Create a `VkInstance`
- Select a supported graphics card (`VkPhysicalDevice`)
- Create a [`VkDevice`](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.0/man/html/VkDevice.html) and [`VkQueue`](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.0/man/html/VkQueue.html) for drawing and presentation
- Create a window, window surface and swap chain
- Wrap the swap chain images into [`VkImageView`](https://www.khronos.org/registry/vulkan/specs/1.0/man/html/VkImageView.html)
- Create a render pass that specifies the render targets and usage
- Create framebuffers for the render pass
- Set up the graphics pipeline
- Allocate and record a command buffer with the draw commands for every possible swap chain image
- Draw frames by acquiring images, submitting the right draw command buffer and returning the images back to the swap chain
Next [[1.3 API Concepts]]