To make the geometry more realistic we will implement textures. This will allow us to also load and display models.

The high level overview of loading textures looks like this.

- Create an image object that is backed by the device memory.
- Fill in the memory with a pixel from the image
- Create an image sampler 
- Add image sampler to the descriptor to send it to the shader where we can sample colours from the image and apply it to the geometry

We have already worked with images, but they were crated by swap chain. This time we will create the images from scratch. The process is quite similar to buffer creation. We will create staging `VkBuffer`, fill it in with pixel data and send it to the `VkImage` that will be used for rendering.

However we have to take care of the image format depending on the operation we are going to preform with the image. We can choose from the following image layouts.

- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_PRESENT_SRC_KHR`  - used for presenting the image 
- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL` - used for writing fragment shader results into it
- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_TRANSFER_SRC_OPTIMAL` - used as source for transfer operations like during `vkCmdCopyImageBuffer` 
- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_TRANSFER_DST_OPTIMAL` - used as a destination for transfer operation
- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_SHADER_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL` - used for sampling the image in the fragment shader 

To transition the layout of image we will utilise *pipeline barrier*. This can be used to transfer the owner ship of the queues that are flagged as `VK_SHARING_MODE_EXCLUSIVE`. But **mostly** pipeline barriers are used for synchronisation. That is, for example, making sure that image has been written into before it is read.

For loading images we will use `stb_image.h` .

## Implementation

We will create function that will load the image and upload it to the Vulkan. Since we will use command buffer this method should be created **before** we have created command pool

```c++
int texWidth, texHeight, texChanels;  
stbi_uc* pixels = stbi_load("Textures/texture.jpg", &texWidth, &texHeight, &texChanels, STBI_rgb_alpha);  
  
// times 4 because we have RGBA  
VkDeviceSize imageSize = texWidth * texHeight * 4;  
  
if(!pixels) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to load textue");  
}
```

Now we can create staging buffer and staging memory in order to temporally load the texture.

```c++
VkBuffer stagingImageBuffer;  
VkDeviceMemory stagingImageMemory;  

BufferCreateInfo bufferInfo;  
bufferInfo.physicalDevice = m_physicalDevice;  
bufferInfo.logicalDevice = m_device;  
bufferInfo.surface = m_sruface;  
bufferInfo.usage = VK_BUFFER_USAGE_TRANSFER_SRC_BIT;  
bufferInfo.properties = VK_MEMORY_PROPERTY_HOST_VISIBLE_BIT | VK_MEMORY_PROPERTY_HOST_COHERENT_BIT;  
bufferInfo.size = imageSize;  
CreateBuffer(bufferInfo, stagingImageBuffer, stagingImageMemory);  

stbi_image_free(pixels);  
```

## Texture image

Although we can use buffer directly in the shader, it is not the best thing to do. We are going to store the pixels (texels) inside the `VkImage` this will allow us to access individual texels with `UV` coordinates. And it is easier and faster to implement.

We are going to need the images through the program so we will store it as class members.

```c++
VkImage textureImage;  
VkDeviceMemory textureImageMemory;
```

To create an image we will populate the `VkImageCreateInfo` struct 

```c++
  
VkImageCreateInfo imageInfo{.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_IMAGE_CREATE_INFO};  
  
//what coordinate systems will be used for the image access imageInfo.imageType = VK_IMAGE_TYPE_2D;  
imageInfo.extent.width = static_cast<uint32_t>(texWidth);  
imageInfo.extent.height = static_cast<uint32_t>(texHeight);  
// 1 textel on Z axis not 0 texels  
imageInfo.extent.depth = 1;  
imageInfo.mipLevels = 1;  
imageInfo.arrayLayers = 1;
  
//use the same format as pixels that were loaded  
//using different format might result in crash during copying  
imageInfo.format = VK_FORMAT_R8G8B8A8_SRGB;
```

Next we have to specify `tiling`. This represents how pixels are laid in memory:
- `VK_IMAGE_TILING_LINEAR` - row major order, loaded pixels using `stb` are laid like this
- `VK_IMAGE_TILLING_OPTIONAL` - pixels are laid based on implementation defined order for better access
Tilling can not be changed once the image was created. Since we are not using staging image but staging buffer instead we will use image tilling optional to access have the fastest access to the texels in the shader. If were to use image directly the `LINEAR` option would need to be selected.


```c++
imageInfo.tiling = VK_IMAGE_TILING_OPTIMAL;
```

Next we will specify the layout. We again have 2 options for the image layout

`VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_UNDEFINED` - during the first transfer operations texels will be discarded and the image is not accessible by GPU

`VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_PREDEFINED` - pixels will be preserved and buffer is not accessible by GPU

> Summary: we are going to be using buffer where image is stored, if image was stored in `VkImage` the transition of the image would discard the data thus we would need to have tilling set to `VK_TILING_LINEAR` and  image layout to `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_PREDEFINED` this would cause to transform the image layout without loosing data in it. We, however, will have buffer that stores the telex values. So we will transform the image and after it is transformed than we will store data to it. Meaning that we do not care how they are laid out or if they are lost during the transition.  


```c++
imageInfo.initialLayout = VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_UNDEFINED;
```

Now we can set the `usage` of the image. This should match our intentions. The `VkImage` will be used as transfer destination and it will be accessible be shader.

```c++
imageInfo.usage = VK_IMAGE_USAGE_TRANSFER_DST_BIT | VK_IMAGE_USAGE_SAMPLED_BIT;
```

Now we will specify the sharing of the image. We are going to be using it in graphics queue family(which also supports transfer queue) so the sharing mode should be set to `Exclusive`

```c++
imageInfo.sharingMode = VK_SHARING_MODE_EXCLUSIVE;
```

Now we can specify the `samples` and  `flags` 

```c++
//ralated to multy sampling 
imageInfo.samples = VK_SAMPLE_COUNT_1_BIT;  
imageInfo.flags = 0;
```

If we were to use the 3D texture for the train generation we could specify into flags to not allocate memory for the empty spaces.

Now we can allocate memory for our image.

```c++

```
