VkNotes/3. Pipeline/3.3 Fixed function pipeline.md, before:

Vulkan does not have default pipeline stages, therefore we have to be explicit about everything and fill in all of the little details, like depth testing, colour blending, anti aliasing and much more. 

## Dynamic state
Since pipeline will be baked into imputable (non-changeable) state everything needs to be predefined. Except for few things such as: *View port size, line width and bland constants*. We will specify that we want dynamic values by populating the `VkPipelineDynamicStateCreateInfo` struct. 

This values **will have to be set up during render time**

```c++
std::vector<VkDynamicState> dynamicStates = {  
    VK_DYNAMIC_STATE_VIEWPORT,  
    VK_DYNAMIC_STATE_SCISSOR  
};  
  
VkPipelineDynamicStateCreateInfo dynamicStateCreateInfo{};  
dynamicStateCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_DYNAMIC_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
dynamicStateCreateInfo.dynamicStateCount = static_cast<uint32_t>(dynamicStates.size());  
dynamicStateCreateInfo.pDynamicStates = dynamicStates.data();
```

## Vertex input 
Specifies exactly what `glVertexAtribbArray` function. That is spacing between various kind of data formats, binding points in vertex shader etc.

Since we hard coded everything in vertex shader we will leave this stage at defaults.

In order to fill in this stage we will utilise the `VkPiplineVertexInputStateCreateInfo` structure.

```c++
VkPipelineVertexInputStateCreateInfo vertexInputInfo{};  
vertexInputInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_VERTEX_INPUT_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
vertexInputInfo.vertexBindingDescriptionCount = 0;  
vertexInputInfo.pVertexBindingDescriptions = nullptr;  
vertexInputInfo.vertexAttributeDescriptionCount = 0;  
vertexInputInfo.pVertexAttributeDescriptions = nullptr;
```
 `pVertexBindingDescripitions` and `pVertexAttributeDescription` points to the array of structs that describe the information about the vertex arrays.

## Input assembly
Tells how to put together primitives and which ones from the specified vertices. On top of that we can specify if the triangles should repeat after each other by using `topology` member of the `VkPipelineInputAssemblyStateCreateInfo` structure

It can have the following values
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_POINT_LIST` - make points from vertices
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_LINE_LIST` -  line from every 2 vertices without reusing them
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_LINE_STRIP` - end vertex of each line is set as start vertex for other line 
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_LIST` -triangle from every 3 vertices **without** reuse
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_STRIP` - second and third vertex are used as fist 2 vertices of the next. 

The vertices are indexed in sequential order we can use own indexing using *element buffers* but we would have to use special index of `OxFFFF`.

To use element buffers we would have to set the topology to `xxx_STRIP` and set `primitiesRestartEnable` to `VK_TRUE`

We are going to stick with the `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_LIST` and fill in the struct as follows

```c++
VkPipelineInputAssemblyStateCreateInfo inputAssemblyCreateInfo{};  
inputAssemblyCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_INPUT_ASSEMBLY_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
inputAssemblyCreateInfo.topology = VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_LIST;  
inputAssemblyCreateInfo.primitiveRestartEnable = VK_FALSE;
```


## View port
Specifies the are that will be used for rendering. The width and height of the view port should match the view and height of the frame buffer we are going to render into therefore we will use the `VkSwapChain.extent` member to specify width and height of the view port. This is due to the fact that the swap chain images will be used as frame buffers later on in the process. 

```c++
VkViewport viewPort{};  
viewPort.x = 0.0f;  
viewPort.y = 0.0f;  
viewPort.width = (float)m_swapChainExtent.width;  
viewPort.height = (float)m_swapChainExtent.height;  
viewPort.minDepth = 0.0f;  
viewPort.maxDepth = 1.0f;
```

min and max depth are used for the depth buffer and it should be value between 0 and 1 for each. We want the full extend of depth buffer therefore we will use 0 for min and 1 for the max 

## Scissors
Specify the location of the frame buffer where the image will be stored. Everything not inside the scissor are will be discarded. Since we want to utilise the entire frame buffer we should set the scissors to cover its entirety. 

```c++
VkRect2D scissor{};  
scissor.offset = {0,0};  
scissor.extent = m_swapChainExtent;
```
>NOTE: we use extent for specifying the width and height of the image view port size so we will use the same extent here as we don't want scissors to clip part of the image. 

To put it to the pipeline we can use dynamic binding to give us more flexibility. This is common and it  is actually specified later in in the **command buffer** during render time. 

```c++
VkPipelineDynamicStateCreateInfo dynmicStaetVPaScissors{};  
dynmicStaetVPaScissors.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_DYNAMIC_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
dynmicStaetVPaScissors.dynamicStateCount = static_cast <uint32_t>(dynamicStates2.size());  
dynmicStaetVPaScissors.pDynamicStates= dynamicStates2.data();
```

We can also specify that the view port and scissors are immutable, thus new values would require new pipeline to be created. We can do so by filling in this struct `VkPiplineViewPortStateCreateInfo`

Additionally it is possible to use multiple pipelines and view ports but this would require enabling feature on the GPU during the logical device creation [[2.4 Logical device and queues]]

## Rasterizer

It creates the fragments that are coloured by *fragment shader*. Furthermore it preforms depth testing, face culling, scissor test and colour blending. 

It is possible to set it up to only render *wire frames* of the specified geometry.

To set up rasterizer we will utilise `VkPiplineRasterizationStateCreateInfo`  and we will fill it with following inforamtion

```c++
VkPipelineRasterizationStateCreateInfo rasterizerCreateInfo{};  
rasterizerCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_RASTERIZATION_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthClampEnable = VK_FALSE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.rasterizerDiscardEnable = VK_FALSE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.polygonMode = VK_POLYGON_MODE_FILL;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.lineWidth = 1.0f;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.cullMode =  VK_CULL_MODE_BACK_BIT;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.frontFace =VK_FRONT_FACE_CLOCKWISE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasEnable = VK_FALSE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasConstantFactor = 0.0F;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasClamp = 0.0f;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasSlopeFactor = 0.0f;
```

all of this should be obvious but `rasterizerDiscardEnable` field will disable output to the frame buffer if set to `VK_TRUE`. Additionally `depthClampEnable` is set to `VK_FALSE` because we want to discard the fragments and not just clamp them if the depth test is not passing 

## Multi sampling
Changes the size of the pixel, it is one of the forms of anti-aliasing.
In order to enable this we would have to enable GPU feature and for now we will just keep it disabled but fill in some struct details 

```c++
VkPipelineMultisampleStateCreateInfo multisampleCreateInfo{};  
multisampleCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_MULTISAMPLE_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
multisampleCreateInfo.sampleShadingEnable = VK_FALSE;  
multisampleCreateInfo.rasterizationSamples = VK_SAMPLE_COUNT_1_BIT;  
multisampleCreateInfo.minSampleShading = 1.0f  
multisampleCreateInfo.pSampleMask = nullptr;  
multisampleCreateInfo.alphaToCoverageEnable= VK_FALSE;  
multisampleCreateInfo.alphaToOneEnable =VK_FALSE;
```
This will be later addressed by multi sampling chapter. 

## Depth and stencil test
In order to use this we would have to create *depth buffer* we dont have one so we are going to pass the `nullptr` to fields requiring it. The fields in question are stored in `VkPipelineDepthStencilStateCreateInfo`.

Commit message:

added bitwise opeartion for colour blending

VkNotes/3. Pipeline/3.3 Fixed function pipeline.md, after:

Vulkan does not have default pipeline stages, therefore we have to be explicit about everything and fill in all of the little details, like depth testing, colour blending, anti aliasing and much more. 

## Dynamic state
Since pipeline will be baked into imputable (non-changeable) state everything needs to be predefined. Except for few things such as: *View port size, line width and bland constants*. We will specify that we want dynamic values by populating the `VkPipelineDynamicStateCreateInfo` struct. 

This values **will have to be set up during render time**

```c++
std::vector<VkDynamicState> dynamicStates = {  
    VK_DYNAMIC_STATE_VIEWPORT,  
    VK_DYNAMIC_STATE_SCISSOR  
};  
  
VkPipelineDynamicStateCreateInfo dynamicStateCreateInfo{};  
dynamicStateCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_DYNAMIC_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
dynamicStateCreateInfo.dynamicStateCount = static_cast<uint32_t>(dynamicStates.size());  
dynamicStateCreateInfo.pDynamicStates = dynamicStates.data();
```

## Vertex input 
Specifies exactly what `glVertexAtribbArray` function. That is spacing between various kind of data formats, binding points in vertex shader etc.

Since we hard coded everything in vertex shader we will leave this stage at defaults.

In order to fill in this stage we will utilise the `VkPiplineVertexInputStateCreateInfo` structure.

```c++
VkPipelineVertexInputStateCreateInfo vertexInputInfo{};  
vertexInputInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_VERTEX_INPUT_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
vertexInputInfo.vertexBindingDescriptionCount = 0;  
vertexInputInfo.pVertexBindingDescriptions = nullptr;  
vertexInputInfo.vertexAttributeDescriptionCount = 0;  
vertexInputInfo.pVertexAttributeDescriptions = nullptr;
```
 `pVertexBindingDescripitions` and `pVertexAttributeDescription` points to the array of structs that describe the information about the vertex arrays.

## Input assembly
Tells how to put together primitives and which ones from the specified vertices. On top of that we can specify if the triangles should repeat after each other by using `topology` member of the `VkPipelineInputAssemblyStateCreateInfo` structure

It can have the following values
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_POINT_LIST` - make points from vertices
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_LINE_LIST` -  line from every 2 vertices without reusing them
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_LINE_STRIP` - end vertex of each line is set as start vertex for other line 
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_LIST` -triangle from every 3 vertices **without** reuse
- `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_STRIP` - second and third vertex are used as fist 2 vertices of the next. 

The vertices are indexed in sequential order we can use own indexing using *element buffers* but we would have to use special index of `OxFFFF`.

To use element buffers we would have to set the topology to `xxx_STRIP` and set `primitiesRestartEnable` to `VK_TRUE`

We are going to stick with the `VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_LIST` and fill in the struct as follows

```c++
VkPipelineInputAssemblyStateCreateInfo inputAssemblyCreateInfo{};  
inputAssemblyCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_INPUT_ASSEMBLY_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
inputAssemblyCreateInfo.topology = VK_PRIMITIVE_TOPOLOGY_TRIANGLE_LIST;  
inputAssemblyCreateInfo.primitiveRestartEnable = VK_FALSE;
```


## View port
Specifies the are that will be used for rendering. The width and height of the view port should match the view and height of the frame buffer we are going to render into therefore we will use the `VkSwapChain.extent` member to specify width and height of the view port. This is due to the fact that the swap chain images will be used as frame buffers later on in the process. 

```c++
VkViewport viewPort{};  
viewPort.x = 0.0f;  
viewPort.y = 0.0f;  
viewPort.width = (float)m_swapChainExtent.width;  
viewPort.height = (float)m_swapChainExtent.height;  
viewPort.minDepth = 0.0f;  
viewPort.maxDepth = 1.0f;
```

min and max depth are used for the depth buffer and it should be value between 0 and 1 for each. We want the full extend of depth buffer therefore we will use 0 for min and 1 for the max 

## Scissors
Specify the location of the frame buffer where the image will be stored. Everything not inside the scissor are will be discarded. Since we want to utilise the entire frame buffer we should set the scissors to cover its entirety. 

```c++
VkRect2D scissor{};  
scissor.offset = {0,0};  
scissor.extent = m_swapChainExtent;
```
>NOTE: we use extent for specifying the width and height of the image view port size so we will use the same extent here as we don't want scissors to clip part of the image. 

To put it to the pipeline we can use dynamic binding to give us more flexibility. This is common and it  is actually specified later in in the **command buffer** during render time. 

```c++
VkPipelineDynamicStateCreateInfo dynmicStaetVPaScissors{};  
dynmicStaetVPaScissors.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_DYNAMIC_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
dynmicStaetVPaScissors.dynamicStateCount = static_cast <uint32_t>(dynamicStates2.size());  
dynmicStaetVPaScissors.pDynamicStates= dynamicStates2.data();
```

We can also specify that the view port and scissors are immutable, thus new values would require new pipeline to be created. We can do so by filling in this struct `VkPiplineViewPortStateCreateInfo`

Additionally it is possible to use multiple pipelines and view ports but this would require enabling feature on the GPU during the logical device creation [[2.4 Logical device and queues]]

## Rasterizer

It creates the fragments that are coloured by *fragment shader*. Furthermore it preforms depth testing, face culling, scissor test and colour blending. 

It is possible to set it up to only render *wire frames* of the specified geometry.

To set up rasterizer we will utilise `VkPiplineRasterizationStateCreateInfo`  and we will fill it with following inforamtion

```c++
VkPipelineRasterizationStateCreateInfo rasterizerCreateInfo{};  
rasterizerCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_RASTERIZATION_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthClampEnable = VK_FALSE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.rasterizerDiscardEnable = VK_FALSE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.polygonMode = VK_POLYGON_MODE_FILL;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.lineWidth = 1.0f;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.cullMode =  VK_CULL_MODE_BACK_BIT;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.frontFace =VK_FRONT_FACE_CLOCKWISE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasEnable = VK_FALSE;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasConstantFactor = 0.0F;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasClamp = 0.0f;  
rasterizerCreateInfo.depthBiasSlopeFactor = 0.0f;
```

all of this should be obvious but `rasterizerDiscardEnable` field will disable output to the frame buffer if set to `VK_TRUE`. Additionally `depthClampEnable` is set to `VK_FALSE` because we want to discard the fragments and not just clamp them if the depth test is not passing 

## Multi sampling
Changes the size of the pixel, it is one of the forms of anti-aliasing.
In order to enable this we would have to enable GPU feature and for now we will just keep it disabled but fill in some struct details 

```c++
VkPipelineMultisampleStateCreateInfo multisampleCreateInfo{};  
multisampleCreateInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_PIPELINE_MULTISAMPLE_STATE_CREATE_INFO;  
multisampleCreateInfo.sampleShadingEnable = VK_FALSE;  
multisampleCreateInfo.rasterizationSamples = VK_SAMPLE_COUNT_1_BIT;  
multisampleCreateInfo.minSampleShading = 1.0f  
multisampleCreateInfo.pSampleMask = nullptr;  
multisampleCreateInfo.alphaToCoverageEnable= VK_FALSE;  
multisampleCreateInfo.alphaToOneEnable =VK_FALSE;
```
This will be later addressed by multi sampling chapter. 

## Depth and stencil test
In order to use this we would have to create *depth buffer* we dont have one so we are going to pass the `nullptr` to fields requiring it. The fields in question are stored in `VkPipelineDepthStencilStateCreateInfo`. 

>This will be configured later on. 

## Colour blending 
Fragment shader returns a colour and the colour needs to be combined with already existing colour in the frame buffer this is done via various operations

There are two ways to preform it.
- **mix** old and new value to produce the final colour
- **using bit-wise operator (and, or, xor, etc.)** 
In order to preform and configure colour blending we have to configure 2 structs one `VkPipelineColorBlendAttachmentState` this is configuration **per frame buffer** and other one called `VkPipelineColorBlendStateCreateInfo` which configures colour blending **globaly**, thus it needs to be set only once
