We have to specify what attachment does frame buffer have. E.g. colour attachment,depth attachment, stencil attachment etc...

All of this is encapsulated in the render pass object. We will create the render pass object in the `initVulkan` method **before** we create the rendering pipeline. 

In our case we will only have one colour attachment that is represented by one of the images from the *swap chain*. See [[2.6 Swap chain]]

To create this attachment we will use `VkAttachemntDescription` struct to configure it. 

```c++
VkAttachmentDescription colorAttachment{};  
//the format R8G8B8A8
colorAttachment.format = m_swapChainImageFormat;
//not doing multi sampling so just ine sampel per pixel
colorAttachment.samples = VK_SAMPLE_COUNT_1_BIT;
```

Next we will configure operations that are preformed after rendering and before rendering.
To do this we will configure `loadOp` and `storeOp` members of the `VkAttachemntDesciption` struct. The `loadOp` is specifies what to do with the attachment **before rendering** and we have the following choices for this operation
	- `VK_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_LOAD` preserves the existing content of the frame buffer and draws on top of it.
	- `VK_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_CLEAR` clears the attachment to the constant colour like black and renders on top of that 
	- `VK_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_DONT_CARE` existing content is undefined 
On the other had `storeOp` is preformed after the render call and we can specify these values:
- `VK_ATTACHMENT_STORE_OP_STORE` rendered contents will be stored in memory to be accessed later.
- `VK_ATTACHMENT_SOTRE_OP_DONT_CARE` rendered result will remain undefined 
We will use `VK_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_CLEAR` for the `loadOp` and `VK_ATTACHMENT_STORE_OP_STORE` for the `storeOp` in order to store the result for later use 

```c++
colorAttachment.loadOp = VK_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_CLEAR;  
colorAttachment.storeOp = VK_ATTACHMENT_STORE_OP_STORE;
```
>NOTE: this applies for both colour attachment and depth buffer

Next we will specify the load and store operations for stencil buffer, we don't plan to do anything with it so we will keep it as undefined. 

```c++
colorAttachment.stencilLoadOp = VK_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_CLEAR;  
colorAttachment.stencilStoreOp = VK_ATTACHMENT_STORE_OP_DONT_CARE;
```

Now we have to specify the layout of the image that depends on what the operation will be preformed on the image as the layout in the memory is different.  Image layout needs to changed e.g. be transitioned to the layout that will be used by the operation. 

The frame buffer and textures in Vulkan are represented by `VkImage`. 

We have to specify the purpose of the image before and after the rendering.  This can be specified by the `nitialLayout` and `finalLayout` fields of the `VkAttachemntDescription` struct 

The common layouts are 
- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_COLOR_ATTACHEMNT_OPTIMAL` for images used as colour attachments
- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_PRESENT_SRC_KHR` for images that are going to be displayed on the screen
- `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_TRANSFER_DST_OPTIMAL` images as destination for memory copy destination

for initial layout we will use `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_UNDEFINED` as we don't care what was the image format before

for the `finalLayout` we will use `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUG_PRESENT_SRC_KHR`

## Sub-pass and attachment reference 

Sub pass usually depends on the outcome of other render passes, meaning other render call depends on outcome (colour, depth) of another one.

We can reference the sub-passes using `VkAttachmentReference`. Every sub-pass refers to the attachment created by structs like `VkAttachmentDescription` (colour, depth buffer etc.).

```c++
VkAttachmentReference colorAttachmentRef{};  
colorAttachmentRef.attachment = 0;  
colorAttachmentRef.layout = VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL;
```

The `attachment` field is an index of the reference attachment, meaning that we are indexing this struct ourselves. 

This index can be used directly in the fragment shader using `layout(location =i) out vec2 xy`

The sub-pass itself is described by `VkSubpassDescription` 

```c++
VkSubpassDescription subPass{};  
subPass.pipelineBindPoint = VK_PIPELINE_BIND_POINT_GRAPHICS;  
//reference to the colour attachemnt  
subPass.colorAttachmentCount = 1;  
subPass.pColorAttachments = &colorAttachmentRef;
```

As mentioned the `pColorAttachments` is usually an array of colour attachment needed for the render pass. This is specified by the `VkAttachmentRefference`. 

Additionally the the `VkSUbpassDescription` supports other attachments
- `pInputAttachments` data that are read by the fragment shader
- `pResolveAttachemt` attachment used for multi sampling 
- `pDepthStencilAttachemnt` attached with depth and stencil data
- `pPreserveAttachemnt` not used for the given sub pass but the data should be kept 

Now that we have the attachment and sub pass referencing it we can create the Render pass itself using `VkRenderPass`

The first thing is to store the render pass for example like class member 

Than we can fill in the struct that will provide information for the given render pass 

```c++
VkRenderPassCreateInfo renderPassInfo{};  
renderPassInfo.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_RENDER_PASS_CREATE_INFO;  
renderPassInfo.attachmentCount = 1;  
renderPassInfo.pAttachments = &colorAttachment;  
renderPassInfo.subpassCount = 1;  
renderPassInfo.pSubpasses = &subPass;
```

Now we can create the actual Render pass using `vkCreateRenderPass`

```c++
if(vkCreateRenderPass(m_device, &renderPassInfo, nullptr, &m_renderPass) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to create render pass");  
}
```

And of course we have to delete it manually as it will be referenced through the program. This should be deleted **after the pipeline layout**

```c++
vkDestroyPipelineLayout(m_device, m_pipelineLayout, nullptr);  
vkDestroyRenderPass(m_device, m_renderPass, nullptr);
```
