As mentioned descriptor layouts just describe the buffers that are going to be used. To actual use them we will create descriptor set that will have access to the UBO and can bind them to be used in the shader.

They can not be created by them selves. We first have to create descriptor pool with all available information.  

We first have to specify which descriptor types and how many of them the descriptor set will contain. We do this by filling in the `VkDescriptorPoolSize` structe

```c++
VkDescriptorPoolSize poolSize{.type = VK_DESCRIPTOR_TYPE_UNIFORM_BUFFER};  
poolSize.descriptorCount = static_cast<uint32_t>(MAX_FRAMES_IN_FLIGHT);
```

It only has two fields `type` and `count` the type specifies for what buffer type we are creating the descriptor pool. This structure is later referenced by `VkPoolCreateInfo` struct

```c++
VkDescriptorPoolCreateInfo poolInfo{.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_DESCRIPTOR_POOL_CREATE_INFO};  
poolInfo.poolSizeCount =1;  
poolInfo.pPoolSizes = &poolSize;  
//maximum number of descriptors created from this pool
poolInfo.maxSets = static_cast<uint32_t>(MAX_FRAMES_IN_FLIGHT);
```

Now we can store the descriptor set as a class member variable and create it using `VkCreateDesciptorPool

```c++
if(vkCreateDescriptorPool(m_device, &poolInfo, nullptr, &m_descriptorPool) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to create descriptor pool");
```

## Descriptor set 

Now that we have `DescriptorLayouBindings` to specify the binding information, `DescriptorLayout` to specify where the bindings in pipeline occur and inform the pipeline about data that are going to be used and `DescriptorPool` to allocate the `DescriptorSet` from. We can finally start finishing up by creating descriptor sets.

We will allocate descriptor sets by populating `VkDescriptorSetAllocateInfo` struct. Where we have to specify the **descriptor pool** to allocate from, number of descriptor set to allocate and **descriptor layouts** (they hold information about bindings of the buffers) that are based on the descriptor sets.

```c++
std::vector<VkDescriptorSetLayout> layouts(MAX_FRAMES_IN_FLIGHT,m_descriptorSetLayout);  
VkDescriptorSetAllocateInfo allocInfo{.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_DESCRIPTOR_SET_ALLOCATE_INFO};  
allocInfo.descriptorPool = m_descriptorPool;  
allocInfo.descriptorSetCount = static_cast<uint32_t>(MAX_FRAMES_IN_FLIGHT);  
allocInfo.pSetLayouts = layouts.data();
```


Now that we have information about descriptor sets we can allocate them and store their handle to the `std::vector<VkDescriptorSet>` variable.

```c++
if(vkAllocateDescriptorSets(m_device, &allocInfo, m_descriptorSets.data()) != VK_SUCCESS) {  
    throw std::runtime_error("Failed to allocate descriptors sets");  
}
```

Now we will have several number of descriptors and **each one** describes uniform buffer.
 
We do not need to delete those explicitly as they are deleted by the *descriptor pool* that was used for their allocate. This is done by calling `vkDestroyDescriptorPool`

```c++
vkDestroyDescriptorPool(m_device, m_descriptorPool, nullptr);  
vkDestroyDescriptorSetLayout(m_device, m_descriptorSetLayout, nullptr);
```

So now we have descriptor set(s) but the actual descriptors that are within descriptor sets still needs to be allocated. We will iterate over each descriptor set and configure it. It depends to what is the descriptor for, in our case it is `VkBuffer` hence we will use `VkDescriptorBuffer` info struct

```c++
for(size_t i = 0; i<MAX_FRAMES_IN_FLIGHT; i++) {  
    VkDescriptorBufferInfo bufferInfo{};  
    bufferInfo.buffer = m_uniformBuffers[i];  
    bufferInfo.offset = 0;
    bufferInfo.range = sizeof(UniformBufferObject);  //can be VK_WHOLE_SIZE
}
```

The tell the descriptors about the information that we have just created we will use the `vkUpdateDescriptorSets` function. This function takes array of `VkWriteDescriptorSets` as a parameter

```c++
VkWriteDescriptorSet descriptorWrite{.sType = VK_STRUCTURE_TYPE_WRITE_DESCRIPTOR_SET};  
descriptorWrite.dstSet = m_descriptorSets[i];
// descritptor binding is at 0 as specified by the descriptor layout info
descriptorWrite.dstBinding = 0;  
descriptorWrite.dstArrayElement = 0;
```

Now we will specify the type of the descriptor and count we want to update. If we were to have array of descriptors it would start updating from `dstArrayElement` until the end of `descriptorCount`

```c++
descriptorWrite.descriptorType = VK_DESCRIPTOR_TYPE_UNIFORM_BUFFER;  
descriptorWrite.descriptorCount = 1;
```

Lastly we have to specify the buffer info that we have created by using `VkDescritptorBufferInfo`.

```c++
descriptorWrite.pBufferInfo = &bufferInfo;  
descriptorWrite.pImageInfo = nullptr;  
descriptorWrite.pTexelBufferView = nullptr;
```

Lastly we can call the `vkupdateDescriptorSets` 

```c++
vkUpdateDescriptorSets(m_device, 1, &descriptorWrite, 0, nullptr);
```

By using this function we can either pass an array of `VkWriteDescriptorSets` of `VkCopyDescriptorSets` later is used when we want to copy one descriptor set to another.

## Using descriptor sets

Now we have to bind it while **recording the command buffer**. This can be done by `vkCmdBindDescriptorSets` this must be done before the drawing command.

```c++
vkCmdBindDescriptorSets(commandBuffer, VK_PIPELINE_BIND_POINT_GRAPHICS, m_pipelineLayout, 0, 1, &m_descriptorSets[currentFrame], 0, nullptr);
```

the first parameter is obviously the command buffer, next we have to specify if which pipeline they will be used for, since they can be used either in graphics or compute pipeline.
Next parameter specifies the layout that they are based upon. The next 3 parameters specify the index of the first descriptor set, number of sets to bind and array of descriptor sets to use. The last two specify the array of offsets specified for the dynamic descriptors. 

	
